# UX Design of a Public Library 

## DH150 Assignment02: Usability Testing (UT) by Avery Edson
### Santa Monica Public Library Website

#### Introduction: What is the purpose of UT?

The purpose of this usability test (UT) is to uncover usability issues with the design of the Santa Monica Public Library website so that I can improve the website. Through UT, we begin to understand how real users interact with a product, and are therefore able to improve its design. One of the aspects I wanted to test was how certain inconsistencies affect the usability of the site, specifically the listing of the library’s branches on the homepage. And so, the first task I included in the UT was to search the library’s basic information, which can be found using the provided information on the homepage. Depending on how the user goes about completing the first task, this can also test the usability of the site’s tabs and whether their titles are representative of what their pages contain. The next feature I wanted to test was the usability of the library’s online catalog. I assume most users visit the library’s website with the purpose of searching the library catalog, and so it is of high priority to optimize its usability. Thus, the second task requires the user to search and to modify a search within the library catalog. The third aspect I wanted to test was the site’s layout of information. Specifically, whether it was clear that certain information would be found under certain tabs and whether each page layout was structured to be understood by the user. And so, the third task asks the user to search for information within the library’s site, allowing myself to observe how they interact with the site’s tabs/pages.

[Link to online survey](https://forms.gle/shAwhGvCen2a42y77)

[Link to pilot UT video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1nyb6Q5BHvOsodQlYyRkTni3IW98gtw9Q/view?usp=sharing)

#### Conclusion:

There were a couple issues I noticed during the pilot test with the instructions of the UT, that I went ahead and adjusted. The first issue, which caused the participant some confusion, was the instruction for one of the steps in task01. The instructions asked the user to ‘specify the genre as nonfiction’. By specifying nonfiction as a genre, the instructions suggest the participant should look under the listed genres, however, this is not where the nonfiction label is actually found. To keep the instructions neutral, I changed the instructions to state ‘specify your search as nonfiction’. The second issue I noticed was the instruction for part of the post-questionnaire. The instructions tell the participant to write down any further comments below each of their answers, however, I didn’t include space for them to do so. I want ahead and removed that part of the instructions because I felt it wasn’t entirely necessary to have such commentary with the participant already talking out loud, but I may change my mind about this. The technology used to conduct the UT performed well, and so the UT ran smoothly in this regard. I used my laptop as the testing device, which includes a camera and microphone, and the program ActivePresenter to screen record. The “lab setting” was my living room in my apartment. In the future, I will relocate the test to a more private setting where others won’t interrupt. Additionally, I would also like to have a copy of the instructions separate from the participant’s screen, so that I am not hovering over the participant to read the instructions. In my opinion, this would make the UT seem more professional.
